- [Instructor] When starting out with GitLab,
the first thing a team should do is setup user accounts.
User accounts allow team members to log into the tool
and are used to control their access and privileges
on specific projects.
Within GitLab there's two way to create an account.
First, a team member can register for an account
on their own through the splash page for the tool.
Here you see they have to fill out a simple form.
So what we're going to do is build a maintainer account.
The maintainer account is going to represent our team
member who has commit privileges on every branch
within the repository.
They're going to be the folks performing the merge
request from the contributors.
So we go ahead and set up our maintainer account.
And we need to provide some simple information such as
their email, as well as a password.
I'm going to go ahead and simply use password as their
password to keep things simple.
Once we hit the register button,
you'll see that we are logged in as our maintainer.
It's that simple.
So I'm going to go ahead and log out so we can
demonstrate the next way to create an account within
GitLab.
And that way is as the administrator.
So an administrator can create an account for a new user.
So we're going to log in as root and once we're logged in
we're going to access the administration area for GitLab
by clicking the little wrench at the top of the screen.
If we take a look now at the sidebar,
you're going to see the user's section appear.
We already see the maintainer account that we've created,
and we're going to go ahead and build a new user account,
this time for a contributor.
The contributor account is going to represent those
developers on our team that lack commit access and
need to work through a maintainer in order to have their
feature branches integrated within the major development
branches in our repository.
So we just need once again to provide simple pieces
of information.
The name, the username and the email for contributor.
From there if we'd like we can set up additional access
for this user.
We can make them an administrator if we want them to have
higher lever privileges, however for this user,
they can stay as a regular user or one of developers
on our project.
Once we've completed the form,
all we have to do is click the create user button
at the bottom of the screen and we see that the
new user is established.
Now that we have these two users,
we're going to go ahead and assign them to our
flow project.
So at the top of the screen we click the
projects menu area and then click on your projects,
to access the flow project.
Within the flow project we can scroll down on the sidebar
and under settings we find the member's area.
This allows us to assign different users to the project.
So let's first assign the contributor to the project and
we need to select a permission level for this user
on the project.
We're going to go ahead and make our
contributor a developer.
This will give them push permissions and commit permissions
on branches within the repository that are not protected.
Once we've established their permission level,
we can click on add to project and they're now assigned.
From there, we're going to add the maintainer.
Now the maintainer is going to have the higher level
maintainer permission.
This is going to allow them to perform things such as
pushes on protected branches within the repository.
Once we've selected the permission, we just hit add
to project and we now have these two members of
our project established with their roles.
Okay, so now we have our team set up so we can
continue work on our project.